docs - filters (#26220)
metabase/metabase: docs/troubleshooting-guide/filters.md

---
title: Troubleshooting filters
---

# Troubleshooting filters

It's always a good idea to start with a quick sanity check:

1. Clear your browser cache.
2. Refresh the page.
3. Open your question or dashboard in an incognito window.

## Dashboard filters

1. Go to your dashboard.
2. Click the **pencil** icon to go into edit mode.
3. Click the **gear** icon beside your filter widget.
4. Make sure you've selected a column for your filter under **Column to filter on**.
5. If you can't find the right **Column to filter on**, or you're getting "No Results" when you apply the filter:

>    - Go to the _original question_.

Reviewer: > Go to the _original question_.

How?

   - Follow the troubleshooting steps under [Question filters](#question-filters).

## Question filters

> 1. Go to your question.

Reviewer: > 1. Go to your question.

Do we need this step? If so, we should be more specific on how to get from dashboard to question.

3. Check that the column actually contains the value(s) you're filtering on. You can do this by:
   - sorting number or date columns,
   - creating a "contains" filter for string columns, or
   - asking your database admin.
4. Ask your Metabase admin to help you check if:
   - Metabase is [up to date](../databases/connecting.md#manually-syncing-tables-and-columns) with your database,
   - the column is [visible](../data-modeling/metadata-editing.md#column-visibility) in Metabase,
   - you have the correct [data permissions](../permissions/data.md) to access the column.

### Special cases

If you're having trouble filtering on a:

- [Custom column](../questions/query-builder/introduction.md#creating-custom-columns): check if the custom expression is working as expected. For example, your custom expression might be returning blank values when you expect numbers.
- [SQL field filter](../questions/native-editor/sql-parameters.md#the-field-filter-variable-type): make sure you're using the correct [field filter syntax](../questions/native-editor/sql-parameters.md#field-filter-syntax), then see [Troubleshooting SQL variables](./sql.md#field-filter-variables).

**Explanation**

> When we first set up a filter, we need to link the filter to a column. Our filter won't work at all if we make the wrong assumptions about column's values or data type. Or, the filter might suddenly stop working if the column gets changed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When we first set up a filter, we need to link the filter to a column. If we make the wrong assumptions about a column's values or data type, the filter won't work at all. If a column changes, the filter might suddenly stop working.
```

1. Find the [data type](https://www.metabase.com/learn/databases/data-types-overview) of the column that you want to filter on. You can find this info from:
   - the [Data reference](../exploration-and-organization/data-model-reference.md),
   - the [Data Model page](../data-modeling/metadata-editing.md) (admins only), or
   - directly from the database.
2. Cast the column to a data type that matches the desired [filter type](../questions/query-builder/introduction.md#filter-types). You can:
   - [cast strings or numbers to dates](../data-modeling/metadata-editing.md#casting-to-a-specific-data-type) from the Data Model page, or
   - change the data type of the column in your database, and [re-sync](../databases/connecting.md#manually-syncing-tables-and-columns) the database schema.

**Explanation**

Metabase needs to know the data type of a column in order to present you with a curated selection of filter types. Sometimes these columns are mistyped---if a column stores your numbers as strings, Metabase will only show you text or category filters (with options like "is", "is not") instead of number filters (with options like "greater than", "less than").

> Timestamps, in particular, are the root of all evil, so please be patient with your Metabase admin (or yourself!) when trying to get the data type right.

Reviewer: > Timestamps, in particular, are the root of all evil

We should probably have spacetimestamps.
